Hello welcome.
In this lecture I am going to draw you to these two lines here.
Not very interesting by the looks of it but actually what it shows us is they were able to get hold
of a subsystem which is called the null subsystem.
It's not the same as not having got hold of a subsystem at all and I'll talk about the knowles's that
subsystem what we use it for why we want to use it now.
And also you can see the second line and we found a session interface so we've been able to go from
getting a subsystem to getting its session interface as we're going to do in the sledger.
Let's dive right in.
Oh in the last lecture we had the issue that when we go ahead and hit play as it currently is I'm going
to go ahead and do that.
Then we get a warning that there is no subsystem in an output log.
That is because at the moment we haven't configured a subsystem at all.
Now if you go and have a look at the documentation that I brought up for last lecture the online subsystem
overview which is also includes against this lecturer in case you have lost sight of that.
Well we've got a basic design of the online subsystem that's one of the sections on there and in there
you can see that there is a part about the engine any file we may not have come across the engine any
far before but it is the engines settings file.
And there you can configure a default platform service.
Now we could go ahead and try and configure steam right away but there's a lot of incidental complexity
if you try and do steam.
So what we're going to do instead is use something else called the null platform and let's talk a little
bit about the role of said nulled platform.
So this is the more familiar diagram that you have already seen.
We've got unreel and your game sitting on top of the online subsystem interface.
Essentially Now we know that that block is actually an interface to thing underneath which could be
different.
And the thing underneath it can be the No subsystem the subsystem is a subsystem that implements a bare
minimum of what is necessary to be able to test the online subsystem system.
In fact what it does it you to do is do some LAN multiplayer using it's online discovery mechanisms
which is going to be quite useful because already you can see we won't need to find the IP address over
the local network.
Of course it will only work over a Loper local network but it's still better than nothing and it is
a steppingstone that allows us to replace and that old subsystem with steam.
So we're going to start off with a null subsystem but remembering that we've always got steam in our
sites and we won't lose track or lose heart.
Let's have a look and how we can go ahead and configure that no service.
The hint is really here in this online subsystem module section where it's talking about the basic design
and we can copy and paste this section where it has the Within square brackets online subsystem followed
by a default platform service.
Now this is usually a if you may recognize this format if you've done a lot of work with any files it
is a very specific format.
But if you have not seen this before then no.
All we're going to do is we're going to go in to the directory of our project and we are going to go
to the config directory probably a place we haven't been before and we're going to open up the default
engine nagen had to do this in a text editor so let's select that and do an open with and whatever way
you know how to do that and open with something like notepad or any text editor that you happen to have
or prefer on your own platform and we get a text file that looks rough like this on maximize it so that
we don't have any attractions now at the bottom of this file you can just add that section that we have
copy the online subsystem a guess so we've got the online subsystem default platform service being the
some default platform identify what's the default platform identify for an old service.
Well it's just now in that capital letters like so.
Okay so we're going to save that it won't instantly take effect in the engine because we are in an engine
config.
What we're going to have to do is go to our engine and shut it down and launch it back up again by opening
up a new project once more.
So here is the engine back up as it was.
Now I'm going to give you a little mini challenges just a mini challenge no slide for this.
I want you to print the current service name and get it to the stage where it is actually printing out
the nul service.
So pause the video and have a go at doing that for yourself.
Okay welcome back.
This is a very small challenge in fact I think my code is already in the state where it should be able
to print out no service.
Let's try it out.
Go ahead and hit play.
Of course some errors about the main menu blueprint what's going on there.
Let's let's have a look at what that could be.
We've got a menu blueprint which is if we go into the menu system and look at the main menu level which
is what we're currently on then go to the blueprints menu open level blueprint Let's see what this issue
is all about mind opened up on the wrong window.
Our load menu blueprint node is now incorrect because we've changed that to load menu widget.
So let's go ahead and destroy that and add adding the load many widget instead because of that funny
little bug with include headers.
Now that should be okay let's go ahead and play.
They go got the main menu pop up and found a subsystem not perfect so we've got a subsystem now it is
the null subsystem and I am happy with that though in the next lecture we're going to go on and find
out what we can actually do with the session interface of the null subsystem.
In fact let's do a little bit of a skip ahead now.
This wasn't part of your challenge but you can follow along with me what we're going to do is we are
going to go and get hold of the pointer to the correct subsystem.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We're going to go to subsystem.
Arrow and we're going to get hold of the session so go and do a Get session and you can find all of
this on the documentation for the eye online subsystem interface as well.
So we've got the session here let's find out what type of the variable is you dont know the type of
variable by the way you can always use Auto in C plus pass and theyll infer the type of the variable
for you.
So Im going to call this a session interface.
Like so.
And if you do want to then replace auto with an explicit version of what this is then that can be done
as you can see here.
I hover over that.
It is saying that the eye online is on line a session.
Pointer is the type and pad type deaf.
So I online.
Session.
Pointer.
Now if youre not sure what a typedef is it's basically an alias for a type.
So this online session pointer type is actually a more complicated type under the hood but this will
do for now it involves shared pointers and we'll be talking a little bit more about the shared pointers
and type alias's it later on.
All I want to do for now is check that we got a online session back song and say if.
Sesshin.
Interface.
Not equal to null pointer.
Then we can.
Log out.
Found.
Session interface.
And we can delete the extra things that I copied in the log.
That's Give me a little error about this not matching.
Now again I understand a little bit about this in more detail in later lecture so for now let's just
go along with it.
But we do know know that the session interface is not just a simple pointer.
So what we actually can do here was just do an if session interface and that should automatically convert
it to a Boolean.
I do beg your pardon something of C++ shared pointers.
In this case we actually need to do a dot is valid and that will do the trick with shared pointers.
In not visual studio in unreel.
Now if you want to know more about this I'm going to include a link to the shared point of reference
here.
Shared pointer.
And you can see that there is this is valid which returns a ball which tells you whether it's actually
pointing to an object.
Now will talk a bit more about what shared pointers are in later lectures.
But for now it's efficient to say that when you're dealing with a shared point it's very much like a
pointer except instead of checking for equality with equals equals.
I mean checking for nowness and with an equals equals not.
We do it which is valid and if it is valid then we're going to print out session.
So I am going to go ahead and build that and hopefully we'll get what the expected outcome.
So that hasn't successfully compiled Let's head on back into unreal and stop the game and hit play on
the game.
And sure enough it has found the session interface so the session space is also not now which means
that we can work with that in future lectures.
So great stuff.
We know what the null subsystem is we're able to find it and get hold of it and configure it.
Let's move on to the next lecture and actually use it.